# Coffee_or_Sleep
dataset used: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1q3ORRULfZC7KC3glI5D3UPg_nu3Pp_7R/view?usp=sharing
Original link: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/prince7489/power-nap-vs-coffee-effectiveness-dataset

This EDA seeks to understand the level of improvements coffee and napping have on the various evaluation metrics of the human body, and compare them against each other to find the most influential and effective one.

Firstly, necessary libraries were imported. The dataframe was read and processed accordingly. The necessary cleaning and elimination of nulls and duplicates were also performed. Preprocessing was performed to remove two columns from the dataset due to their incompatibility with the problem and unnecessary factoring. The dataset was visualized and examined using pre-built Seaborn functions aimed to make out-liers and distributions more obvious and easy to manage.

Secondly, 3 linear regression models were run aimed to decipher the coefficients each of the factors had concerning the target variables of Alertness_Score_After, Mood_Rating, and Productivity_Score. The model on Alertness_Score_After exuded the most promise, with an R-Squared Score of 0.87. The next linear regression model targeted Mood_Rating, only a very insignificant part of the evaluation showed it leaning for coffee as a positive metric, other evaluations yielded no useful results. The third linear regression model focused on Productivity_Score, no influential metrics were observed, rendering it insignificant. Overall, the only useful and significant target variable was Alertness_Score_After, with the other two target variables being insignificant with the factors provided by the dataset.

Thirdly, a logistic regression model was run to see if it was plausible to differentiate the Intervention_type based on other factors. The result was moderately alright, with a 0.69 accuracy score, with the recall and F1 score around the same. This introduces a reasoning concerning the similarities of performance the intervention type has on the target variable. The graphs prior do support the idea that overlaps exist between the two intervention types. The linear regression model also supports the conclusion that not a significant enough difference coffee and nap has compared each other.

Lastly, a Gradient Boosting ensemble method was performed on the data, with a R-Squared score of 0.84. It revealed a significant correlation between the Alertness_Score_Before and Alertness_Score_After, accounting for 0.87 on the Importance metric. This was to be expected, as increases to the scores occur after the intervention type based on the pre-established alertness score. The second most influential was Intervention_Type, at 0.08, though it is significantly less than the influence Alertness_Score_Before has on Alertness_Score_After, it is still leagues beyond other factors in influencing Alertness_Score_After.

In conclusion, the question of whether or not napping or coffee is better than the other is pretty dubious. The testing revealed no extraordinarily significant differences between coffee and nap, aside from the linear regression’s model concerning an increase of 6 points in Alertness_Score_After of napping compared to coffee. You can say that napping is slightly more effective when it comes to coffee concerning alertness score, but both do wonders at increasing alertness in general.
